Java Control: From Beginner To Winner

**ALTERNATIVE: (How to create a) Web app (in Java) - from idea to your own code deployed to the Internet (i en mer sexy innpakking :-) **

** Learn Java by creating your own web app **

How to Quickly Learn Java Even If You Think You Lack The Time And Discipline

Yes! You made it!

Welcome!

I'm thrilled you've decided to join us, because...

Programming is the superpower you can learn!

And you are going to learn it!

(I'm doing a little happy-dance for you here in my office right now.)

In the next few days and weeks, you'll learn Java by creating your very own web app.

Not only will you learn to create your own web app, you'll also make it available online.

Yes. You!

Now before we get all serious and stuff, I'd like to tell you a story...

Once upon a time there was a boy named Sten.

Okay, that's me.

For my seventh birthday, my mother and father gifted me something unheard of.

Nobody else in our street had one.

It was a miracle.

It looked like the typewriter I had in my room.

It wasn't a typewriter, though.

It had a power cord.

And a cable to connect it to a television. And it came with an integrated cassette player.

And the little boy knew well what it was.

A computer.

A shiny new Sharp MZ-721.

In 1983, the Sharp MZ-721 was the coolest thing in the galaxy.

At least to a seven your old kid growing up in a small community, twenty kilometers from Norway's capital.

(For you non-metric people, twenty kilometers is approximately twelve miles.)

I was in my room, the computer on my desk in front of me.

My body was shaking with anticipation.

Like the kid I was, whenever I looked at something, anything at all, my mind had one thought, and one thought only:

How can I play with this thing?

How much fun can this thing be?

A computer, I knew in my pounding little heart, would provide huge mountains of fun.

Problem was, it didn't come with any games.

None.

All it had, was this weird cassette with the word BASIC written on it.

I didn't know it at the time, but that was an acronym.

Also unbeknown to me, that specific acronym would change my life forever.

In front of me was an adventure I knew nothing about.

All I knew, was I had to answer the call.

I didn't know I was about to meet challenges and setbacks, and experience pain so deep I would cry my heart out.

I put the cassette in the player.

And then ...

...

I'll tell you what happened then, tomorrow ;-)

...

In the mean time ...

Think about it:

That was my big WHY.

I wanted to play games.

In the grander scheme of things, I wanted fun.

Such simple motivation, yet the most powerful kind of motivation there is, because it is so direct.

In that story hides the secret to your success, too.

Now, how about you?

What is your big reason why you want to learn, or become better, at programming?

What is your driving force?

Here's your first assignment (it's easy, but hard):

Ponder, then write down your (tiny or huge) reason why!

Go deep.

Yes, you can use programming to land a well paying job.

Yes, you can use programming to start your own company.

Yes, you can use programming to get a raise in the job you already have.

Which is great, all are valid and valuable goals.

Still, for most of us, money isn't enough ...

There is so much fun to be had!

So many opportunities to change the world.

A programmer is a creator. A person who can take an idea and make it real.

I'm not asking you to find the grand purpose of your life.

I'm only asking you to look beyond the money (if that's what you were looking at :-D )

If you're already in a job, perhaps you will get much more interesting assignments.

Or ... do you want to create something totally new?

A new social media platform, like Twitter or Instagram?

A new auctioning site, like Ebay?

A bingo card creator?

A site that sells Transformers figurines?

As a programmer, the world is your oyster.

Maybe you want to create something the world has never seen before?

There are no right or wrong answers.

This is only the start of your journey.

I'd love to hear you reasons.

Where are you at right now?

What do you think?

What do you dream about the future?

Who do you want to become?

Obviously, you can keep your thoughts to yourself.

This is your fuel.

Yet, I'd be delighted to hear from you. To read your thoughts.

To learn about your life.

If you're willing to share, please hit reply and write me some words!

This is my fuel. I want to help you reach your goals ...

And that's a lot easier when I know what those goals are :-)

A word of warning:

Please don't be offended if I don't answer your email.  I try to answer as many emails as I can, but I do receive a lot of them.

However, I do read and appreciate every email I receive.

As I said, this is *my* fuel. It keeps me writing and creating stuff for you.

And when I know what you want, then it's easier for me to help you.

Simple as that.

Remember: Programming is the superpower you can learn.

And you are going to learn it!

Glad to have you aboard!

I look forward to getting to know you.

Best regards,
Sten

P.S. If you want to supercharge your experience, join me and the team at {{link}}.

You'll instantly receive the Kickstart Guide and the Kickstarter package to get you up and running with the right tools.

In fact, you should be able to get your first, tiny webapp up and running within a few hours.

That means you could start your own journey ... today!

Just sayin' :-)



Housekeeping:

At the end of every email I send to you, there's an unsubscribe link.

If there comes a time when you don't want to hear from me again, click that link, and I'll be out of your inbox.



