Java Control: From Beginner To Winner

How to Quickly Learn Java Even If You Think You Lack The Time And Discipline

Hi, and welcome!

I'm thrilled you've decided to join us.

Now let me tell you a story...

Once upon a time there was a boy named Sten.

Me.

For my seventh birthday, my mother and father gifted me something unheard of.

Nobody else in our street had one.

It was a miracle.

It looked like the typewriter I had in my room.

It wasn't a typewriter, though.

It had a power cord.

And a cable to connect it to a television. And it came with an integrated cassette player.

And the little boy knew well what it was.

A computer.

A shiny new Sharp MZ-721.

In 1983, the Sharp MZ-721 was the coolest thing in the galaxy.

At least to a seven your old kid growing up in a small community, twenty kilometers from Norway's capital.

(For you non-metric people, twenty kilometers is approximately twelve miles.)

I was in my room, the computer on my desk in front of me.

My body was shaking with anticipation.

Like the kid I was, whenever I looked at something, anything at all, my mind had one thought, and one thought only:

How can I play with this thing?

How much fun can this thing be?

A computer, I knew in my pounding little heart, would provide huge mountains of fun.

Problem was, it didn't come with any games.

None.

All it had, was this weird cassette with the word BASIC written on it.

I didn't know it at the time, but that was an acronym.

Also unbeknown to me, that specific acronym would change my life forever.

In front of me was an adventure I knew nothing about.

All I knew, was I had to answer the call.

I didn't know I'd meet challenges and setbacks, and experience pain so deep I would cry my heart out.

I put the cassette in the player.


...

I will reveal what happened in emails to come.

For now, suffice to say that BASIC is a programming language.

I didn't know what it was our how to learn it.

Yet I overcame the hurdles, and fell in love with the process on the way.

´nuff said for now ...

...

So there you have it.

That was my big WHY.

I wanted to play games.

In the grander scheme of things, I wanted fun.

Such simple motivation, yet the most powerful kind of motivation there is, because it is so direct.

In that story hides the secret to your success, too.

I'll tell you more about that, soon.

Now, how about you?

What is your big reason why you want to learn, or become better, at programming?

What is your driving force?

Here's your first assignment:

Ponder, then write down your big reason why.

Go deep.

If the first thing that comes to mind is "I want a job that pays well", that's not going to motivate you in the long run.

Sure, you can use programming to land a well paying job.

You can use programming to start your own company.

You can use programming to get a raise in the job you already have.

Which is great, and all are valid and valuable goals.

Still, for most of us, money isn't enough.

There is so much fun to be had!

So many opportunities to change the world.

A programmer is a creator. A person who can take an idea and make it real.

I'm not asking you to find the grand purpose of your life.

I'm only asking you to look beyond the money.

If your first thought is: "I want to make more money in my job", that's a great starting point. The ask yourself: "Why?"

What are you going to use that money for?

Maybe your answer is "so I can buy a car".

Okay, then ask yourself again: "Why? Why do I want a car?"

And maybe your answer is something to the effect that: "A car will allow me to take my family on nice outings on the weekends" ...

Now you're getting somewhere. Fun, love, family, security.

Those are some of the things that keeps us humans fueled year after year.

That's only my opinion, though.

There are no right or wrong answers.

This is only the start of the journey.

I'd love to hear yours. Obviously, you can keep it to yourself. This is your fuel.

Yet, I'd be delighted to hear from you. To read your thoughts about this subject.

To learn about your life.

Hit reply and write me some words!

I read every email I receive.

Please don't be offended if I don't answer yours. I try to answer as many emails as I can, but I do receive a lot of them.

Best regards,
Sten

Remember: Programming is the superpower you can learn.


Housekeeping:

At the end of every email I send to you, there's an unsubscribe link.

If there comes a time when you don't want to hear from me again, click that link, and I'll be out of your inbox.



