Hey, you're back!

Awesome.

So  ...

There I was in my room, my little heart pounding.

I was a seven year old Norwegian kid, a strange cassette resting in my hand:

BASIC - it said.

I didn't know it was an acronym.

I didn't even know what that English word meant.

All I knew was I had a machine with a cassette player.

And I had a cassette.

One plus one.

In it went: I put the cassette in the player.

Nothing.

Now what?

I yelled for my dad.

He picked up the manual, which I had ignored completely, and translated into Norwegian as he read:

"People use language to communicate with each other, and specially designed languages are also used for communication with computers. BASIC is one such language."

I could talk to the computer?

Cool!

He read on:

"Set the cassette tape containing the BASIC language in the computer's data recorder."

Okay, I had already done that.

"Type in the word LOAD and press the CR key. After doing this, the message PLAY appears on the screen."

Sure. I typed the word LOAD.

The CR key?

What's the CR key.

Okay, there's a button on the computer that says CR.

I pressed it.

The manual went on:

Press the data recorder's | PLAY | button; the cassette tape starts moving and loading of the BASIC language begins.

Again, I was flabbergasted.

The "data recorder"? What's that?

And so it it went.

Slowly, painfully, we were able to load the programming language called BASIC.

Which opened up a totally new and much larger world of pain and confusion, of course ;)

And more fun than I could ever have imagined.

More opportunities.

Was the gateway to more friendships and joys than this 7 year old boy could ever have dreamed of.

Yet, he was so, so happy.

The world of programming was slowly, but surely opening up to him.

Looking back, the manual could have been clearer.

The people writing it, must have been great. Yet, experts lose sight of the small stuff. They forget to mention things that are obvious to them, causing you to get stuck.

Which is such a shitty feeling.

Problem is, today it is a lot harder to get up and running with a functioning programming environment, than it was back in 1983.

Complexity is way higher.

[i dont want you to get stuck at this important junction / juncture. which is why i created the kickstart ,...]



...
Moralen er: Jeg vet hvordan det føles at noen steg er unnnlatt, de som produsenten tenker er opplagte (eller riktigere ikke tenker på at det går an å lure på i det hele tatt.)

Moralen er: samme hvilket språk du lærer, alle språkene i disse kategoriene er så like.

